SpaceX is taking off. And we're not just
talking about rockets. We've never seen
anything like this.
SpaceX's initial public offering is
expected to raise as much as $75
billion, more than double the record
setting $ 29.4 billion raised by Saudi
Aramco in 2019.
>> This is the biggest IPO of all time.
We're looking at $2 trillion in
valuation.
>> Elon Long had said that he didn't really
plan on taking SpaceX public, but that
was before the merger with XAI, before
he needed tens of billions of dollars to
build out these ambitions.
>> But this massive valuation is also a
test. Could all this hype make it seem
worth more than it is? If it's
pre-ordained then it becomes hard to
predict how much of the buyers are
buying because of fundamentals or the
valuation. So then that kind of distorts
the market.
>> Investors are buying the dream. Sure we
all know the dream but what about the
reality?
Traditionally, an IPO or initial public
offering was a primary way for companies
to raise money. Going public was also a
badge of honor. But today, companies
have all kinds of access to capital to
fund their early growth.
>> This is a a huge narrative in the
American stock market right now where
companies that used to go public at a
very early stage now uh can wait really
almost as long as they want because they
have sources of funds that don't require
public investors. This trend has been
fairly consistent with the number of
publicly listed companies in the US
falling since the9s.
>> SpaceX is an extreme case, but it's
definitely not a one-off. A lot of
companies are choosing to stay private,
choosing to scale privately, choosing to
raise funds privately and then go
public. And when they go public, they're
already a mega cap.
>> SpaceX's 277 page filing with the SEC
takes about as long to read as a journey
to Mars. It depicts a conglomerate
handling dollar amounts practically
unheard of in any other IPO.
>> And that filing is giving us a little
bit more of a peak here into the health
of this company. After 2023, the company
made a profit of $791 million only to
lose $4.94 billion in 2025.
But between 2024 and 2025, its total
revenue continued to grow from $14
billion to $18.5 billion. We're looking
at an estimated revenue projection
between 22 and 24 billion. But when you
compare that to the total valuation of
the company that SpaceX is looking at
for this IPO, we're looking at $2
trillion in in valuation. That is a very
big discrepancy.
>> And you can see that discrepancy here.
Looking at major tech stocks, investors
value Tesla and Nvidia at roughly 15
times their annual revenue. They look
like bargains compared to SpaceX and its
price to sales ratio of 87 times.
>> SpaceX today is a very different company
than the SpaceX that was founded more
than 20 years ago. It is the largest
satellite operator in the entire world
with its Starlink constellation with
thousands and thousands of satellites
operating in low earth orbit that
provide broadband internet to the ground
below. So those are very real businesses
that SpaceX has both commandeered and
dominated.
>> This is full power and liftoff. Go
Falcon, go Dragon.
On top of that, it operates rocket
transportation services, either sending
cargo and humans to space, even Mars
travel someday. Those are still quite
speculative and years away. All of these
ambitious IPO related programs all rely
on Starship and it's probably the most
ambitious vehicle that's ever been
conceived for spaceflight. It's meant to
be fully reusable. That makes it
extremely complicated and its
development process has been kind of
rocky in order to get there.
>> And this is a rocket that last time
exploded on the pad. So like you you you
think you want to think it's going to go
well.
>> So much of its value proposition is tied
up in stuff that hasn't quite happened
yet.
>> Even though rockets and satellites have
been its bread and butter, there's
another more pressing reason to go
public. Now,
>> they're also slowly becoming an AI
company and building out data centers to
both train and operate AI in the future.
The amount of capital that they need to
execute on all of these really ambitious
goals is just going to require a lot
more than maybe they can receive from
all of their various businesses in a
short amount of time. this concept of
using space as you know this new real
estate for putting AI data centers that
seemed to be the gamecher that got Elon
thinking okay now might be the time to
actually go public
>> an important aspect of SpaceX's IPO will
be its inclusion in the NASDAQ 100 index
>> we have these big indexes like the S&P
500 it tracks the biggest 500 companies
in the US or the NASDAQ 100 which is the
biggest tech companies
Many companies or dare I say all would
like to be added to them because it
means millions and millions of dollars
of passive funds.
>> This passive money comes from
everywhere. Pension funds, institutional
investors, retirement accounts.
Together, trillions of dollars flow
automatically into funds like Invesco
QQQ, which tracks the NASDAQ 100.
>> If SpaceX is in one of those indexes, it
means millions and millions of Americans
will hold your company. Once the company
is included in the NASDAQ 100, any
investors who are buying the QQQ will by
definition be investing their
hard-earned money into SpaceX regardless
of the valuation. Inclusion in the
NASDAQ 100 or S&P 500 used to be a
lengthy process. But now, since many
companies going public are already
giant, the rules are getting bent. The
old playbook was that you go public, you
undergo a seasoning period, you prove
your profitability, your liquidity, and
then maybe you get added. The new
playbook is the fasttrack entry. NASDAQ
said, "Okay, we're going to fasttrack
our rules." So instead of being public
for 3 months, you can be part of the
NASDAQ 100. And so Bas chose to list
with NASDAQ. Still, changing the rules
to fasttrack a whale is not something
you see every day in the markets.
>> There are a lot of risks when it comes
to fast entry. There's price mismatch,
liquidity, crowding, and there's also of
course the overconentration of meggaap
names because increasingly a lot of our
holdings are just very few big
companies. These few companies determine
the future of your portfolio.
The market has become very concentrated.
It's a very worrisome thing to a lot of
people.
>> And SpaceX isn't the only big private
company eyeing a blockbuster IPO while
clinging to aspirational revenue goals.
>> If you look at companies like Anthropic
and Open AI and the rates at which
they're growing and replicating
themselves, those are going to be
equally enormous IPOs probably in the
not very distant future.
You can see a case where maybe enormous
companies become the rule as far as IPOs
go
>> going forward. This is going to be the
debate. How much dispersion should there
be? Who are the winners going to be? And
will the appetite remain for all of the
other much much bigger IPOs? It should
be said.
>> Despite the warning signs, many are wary
of underestimating Elon Musk. He's
really built an entire brand on turning
science fiction into reality. And
investors are willing to bet that even
if he doesn't deliver on the timeline,
some of these ambitions like orbital
data centers or building a colony on
Mars actually isn't out of the realm of
possibility.
>> Yet, the pressures of being a public
company have a cost. When you shift to a
public company, your focus becomes more
on short-term profits and how you're
maximizing those profits for your
shareholders. When it comes to space,
there's a very long lead time of
development. They also need to be able
to fail. We've seen quite a few
explosions. That doesn't always sit well
with investors and shareholders. So, it
it remains to be seen if SpaceX can
actually pull all this off. what looks
like plausible ambition may end up being
completely baseless hope.
>> For now though, the market seems to have
SpaceX FOMO on an IPO with potential
massive payouts someday.
>> You buy at a trillion, you could
potentially sell at 2 trillion. This
keeps happening and that's pretty much
the story of why SpaceX makes sense to a
lot of people.